Here’s my response to Bolt’s message + the “dream” explained in a way that won’t drag you into overengineering.

1) Bolt’s Step 1–4 order is right (with two small upgrades)
✅ Step 1: Add write support to github-proxy + commitFile() in github.ts

Yes. This is foundational. BUT do it with two guardrails:

Guardrail A — don’t accept file content from the browser as “authority”
Even if the UI sends content, the edge function should:

validate user session

validate repo access belongs to that user

validate path is allowed (no ../, no weird binary blobs)

ideally enforce “only commit to active repo” concept

Guardrail B — prefer patch/diff-based commits long term
For Step 1 it’s fine to commit full file content (GitHub Contents API wants content anyway), but your higher-level workflow should be “diff-first” so you can review and apply changes deterministically.

✅ Step 2: “Send to Agent” button in DesktopGitHub

Perfect. This is the cleanest immediate UX:

browse file → click Send to Agent

swap to Workshop and it’s already pinned

✅ Step 3: Commit button on code blocks in Workshop

Also perfect, but add one rule:

Rule: “Commit” only appears if:

the code block declares a target path, OR

the user explicitly selects a pinned file as the target

Otherwise you’ll end up committing “some code block” to the wrong file and it’ll feel cursed.

✅ Step 4: Active project concept

Agree. It becomes the “context anchor.”
But: don’t auto-inject “entire tree” if it’s huge. Use:

repo name + branch + top-level folders

optionally: a small tree depth (1–2 levels)

plus pinned files list

That’s how you avoid token bloat.

2) What I’d tweak in his “what to skip”

I agree with Bolt on skipping:

full tool-loop

CodeMirror app

streaming

One nuance: CodeMirror is Phase 3+ only if you want real in-browser editing.
For now, “agent proposes patch → you commit” is enough.

Streaming is definitely a later luxury.

3) The “shared context bridge” architecture (keep it simple)

Bolt’s proposed contextFiles[] store is exactly right.

Make it one shared context layer, something like:

type ContextFile = {
  repoFullName: string; // owner/repo
  branch: string;
  path: string;
  sha: string;
  content: string;
  pinnedAt: number;
};


Then:

DesktopGitHub adds to contextFiles

Workshop reads from contextFiles

Commit button uses that record (repo/branch/path/sha)

No bus. No magic. Just one shared store.

4) The real dream (agentic flows) — explained cleanly for Bolt

You and I are aligned: agentic flows are absolutely doable inside ThamOS. The trick is not “build an agent framework,” it’s “add a tool loop and approval gates.”

The dream outcome

You type:

“Update the Chrome extension to add feature X and fix the bug in background.js.”

And the system does:

list repo tree (or relevant folder)

read a couple files

propose a patch

you review

commit/PR

How to implement it without overengineering

There are only three pieces:

Piece A — Tools (server-side)

list_tree(repo, branch, path)

read_file(repo, branch, path)

write_file(repo, branch, path, content, sha, message) (gated)

Piece B — Tool-loop runner (server-side)

This is the “agentic” part. It’s basically:

call model

if it requests a tool, run tool

feed results back

repeat until it returns “final answer” (patch)

stop

That’s not sci-fi. It’s a controlled loop.

Piece C — Human approval gate

Writes never happen automatically.
The model only proposes. You click approve.

That’s the whole dream.

Why Bolt’s Option B first is still the right move

Option B gives you:

“agent knows this file, rewrite it”

commit quickly

build muscle memory for workflow

Then Option C upgrades “how the agent obtains context” (autonomous reads) without changing your UI much.

So Bolt’s plan is the perfect on-ramp to the dream.